# KPI-Converter

The goal of KPI-Converter is to aid the resource allocation processes of network slices in the RAN of cellular networks. Based in the traffic and radio signal quality variations of the considered devices, it returns the optimal amount of radio resources to allocate in order to satisfy a given KPI target. The number of resources is predicted using neural networks with an asymmetrical loss function so that contract violations are avoided.

## Model learning

The file `learning_parameterization.py` contains parameterizable functions to run various configurations. It can use Gradient Boosting, and different neural network setups: Dense (MLP), LSTM, GRU, SimpleRNN... 

More items can be changed such as:
- Use or not of feature selection using Boruta
- Transform input - pre-processes input before the learning phase
- Number of hidden layers (for neural networks)
- Number of units per layer (for neural networks)
- Activation functions (for neural networks)
- Loss functions (for neural networks)
- Optmizer and learning rate (for neural networks)
- Etc...

For examples on how to use it, check `run_simulations_training.py` where some model training setups are specified.

## Dataset

The data from the dataset comes from the wireless mobile networks dataset generator (https://github.com/afonsomota/5gdatasetgenerator). The generated and aggregated data ready to use is present in the `phase.2` folder. The data in this folder can be obtained by using the `cache_generator.py` script with the data generated by the dataset generator.



## Paper

This repository is part of the work:

> A. Oliveira and T. Vazão, "Mapping Network Performance to Radio Resources," 2022 International Conference on Information Networking (ICOIN), 2022, pp. 298-303, doi: 10.1109/ICOIN53446.2022.9687280.

This work was supported by national funds through Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia (FCT) with reference UIDB/50021/2020 and SFRH/BD/132053/2017.

If you use this code in your academic work, a citation to this work is appreciated.

## Plots

The plots for the KPI-Converter work can be generated using the `plot_results.py` script. Note that you previouslya have to train the models for 'KPIC-NN-numsteps', 'KPIC-NN', 'KPIC-FixedOP', and 'Last'. For that use `run_simulations_training.py`.

```
$ python run_simulations_training.py KPIC-NN-numsteps
$ python run_simulations_training.py KPIC-NN
$ python run_simulations_training.py KPIC-FixedOP
$ python run_simulations_training.py KPIC-Last
$ mkdir figures
$ python plot_results.py
```